fish are especially mesmerizing
especially those tantalizingly
out-of-reach goldfish have their own
extraordinary abilities
they appeared in China over a thousand
years ago having been selectively bred
from wild silver car
[Music]
around 250 years ago the stargazer
appeared legend has it that they were
created so that their eyes would always
be directed in wonder towards the
glorious Emperor
[Music]
experiments revealed that goldfish
recognize their owners they have
surprisingly good memories to five
months are long they're extendable jaw
help suck up food the edible bets are
groaned up on tiny teeth at the back of
the mouth while the rest is spat out the
stargazers protruding eyes are easily
damaged so they should only be kept by
specialists but goldfish have
astonishing powers of regeneration and
an injured I can regrow goldfish see
far-red a color we can't see that
penetrates murky pond water but it's not
their only sensory tool a rule of
sensors known as the lateral line pick
up water movements
[Music]
the filming technique that visualized
airflow shows the ad is created by a
swimming goldfish
[Music]
these mini currents are picked up by the
lateral line of other fish and this
helps them swim is a coordinated sure it
detects predators to a touch sense a
warning shot
[Music]
goldfish even use ripples to flirt